 the parties to the marriage must be Christian as defined under section 3 of the Act.
among the parties at least one of them must be a Christian. 
the marriage must have been solemnised in accordance with the provisions of section 5.
 the marriage must be performed in a particular form duly entered in the Marriage Register.
the factum of marriage can be proved by producing the entries from this register.
version of the eye witnesses to the marriage  subsequent conduct of the couple living as husband and wife can prove factum of christian marriage.
admission of either spouse is a relevant factor to prove the factum of marriage.
a Christian Marriage can also take place at the house of the bride's mother and in that case signing of Marriage rigister is not essential in the Act.
Christian marriage even if one of its parties in a Hindu can not be dissolved by a decree of divorce under Section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act.
marriage performed under the provisions of Special Marriage Act can be dissolved on the basis of mutual consent under section 28 of special marriage Act.
by any person who has received episcopal ordination, provided that the marriage be solemnized according to the rules rites ceremonies and customs of the Church of which he is a Minister.
by any Clergyman of the Church of Scotland provided that such marriage be solemnized according to the rules rites ceremonies and customs of the Church of Scotland.
 by any Minister of Religion licensed under this Act to solemnize marriages.
by or in the presence of a Marriage Registrar appointed under this Act.
by any person licensed under this Act to grant certificates of marriage between Indian Christians.
the age of the man intending to be married shall not be under twenty one years and the age ofthe woman intending to be married shall not be under eighteen years.
 neither of the persons intending to be married shall have a wife or husband still living.
the consent of the parents is not necessary as required under section 19 of the indian christian marriage act 1872.
christian marriage can be registered under the special marriage act.
the registration of marriage is compulsory under the indian christian marriage act  1872.
marriage register are of great evidentiary value.
Indian evidence Act deines conclusive proof.
marriage act legalized marriages amongst sikhs called anand.
irrespective of religion.
Inter-religion marriages are performed under this Act.
This Act is applicable to the entire territory of India excluding the state of Jammu and Kashmir and extends to intending spouses who are both Indian nationals living abroad.
Indian national living abroad.
The parties have to file a Notice of Intended Marriage in the specified form to the Marriage Registrar of the district in which at least one of the parties to the marriage has resided for a period of not less than thirty days immediately preceding the date on which such notice is given.
After the expiration of thirty days from the date on which notice of an intended marriage has been published the marriage may be solemnised unless it has been objected to by any person.
The marriage may be solemnised at the specified Marriage Office.
Marriage is not binding on the parties unless each party states take thee.
to be my lawful wife or husband in the presence of the Marriage Officer and three witnesses.
Each party involved should have no other subsisting valid marriage.
the resulting marriage should be monogamous for both parties.
The groom must be at least 21 years old and the bride must be at least 18 years old.
The parties should be competent in regards to their mental capacity to the extent that they are able to give valid consent for the marriage. 
The parties should not fall within the degree of prohibited relationship.
For the purpose of any inquiry under Sec 8 the Marriage Officer shall have all the powers vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure  when trying a suit in respect of the following matters: summoning and enforcing the attendance of witnesses and examining them on oath.
Marriage Officer has power to try a suit for discovery and inspection.
For the purpose of any inquiry under Sec 8 the Marriage Officer shall have all the powers vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure  when trying a suit in respect of the following matters: compelling the production of documents.
For the purpose of any inquiry under Sec 8 the Marriage Officer shall have all the powers vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure  when trying a suit in respect of the following matters: reception of evidence on affidavits.
For the purpose of any inquiry under Sec 8 the Marriage Officer shall have all the powers vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure  when trying a suit in respect of the following matters:  issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses.
any proceeding before the Marriage Officer shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding.
 Before the marriage is solemnized the parties and three witnesses shall in the presence of the Marriage Officer sign a declaration in the Form specified in the Third Schedule to this Act, and the declaration shall be countersigned by the Marriage Officer.
 When the marriage has been solemnized the Marriage Officer shall enter a certificate thereof in the Form specified in the Fourth Schedule in a book to be kept by him for that purpose and to be called the Marriage Certificate Book and such certificate shall be signed by the parties to the marriage and the three witnesses.
 a ceremony of marriage has been performed between the parties and they have been living together as husband and wife ever since.
neither party has at the time of registration more than one spouse living.
neither party is an idiot or a lunatic at the time of registration.
the parties have completed the age of twenty-one year at the time of registration.
the parties are not within the degrees of prohibited relationship.
 the marriage has not been consummated owing to the wilful refusal of the respondent to consummate the marriage.
 the respondent was at the time of the marriage pregnant by some person other than the petitioner.
the consent of either party to the marriage was obtained by coercion or fraud.
the respondent was impotent at the time of the marriage and at the time of the institution of the suit. 
 that the petitioner was at the time of the marriage ignorant of the facts alleged.
that proceedings were instituted within a year from the date of the marriage.
the marital intercourse with the consent of the petitioner has not taken place since the discovery by the petitioner of existence of the grounds a decree.
 has, after the solemnization of the marriage had voluntary sexual intercourse with any person other than his or her spouse.
has deserted the petitioner for a continuous period of not less than two years immediately.
proceeding the presentation of the petition.
is undergoing a sentence of imprisonment for seven years or more for an offence as defined.
 has since the solemnization of the marriage treated the petitioner with cruelty.
has been incurably of unsound mind, or has been suffering continuously or intermittently from mental disorder of such a kind, and to such an extent that the petitioner cannot reasonably be expected to live with the respondent.
that her husband has since the solemnization of the marriage been guilty of rape sodomy or bestiality.
 that there has been no resumption of cohabitation as between the parties to the marriage for a period of one year or upwards after the passing of a decree for judicial separation in a proceeding to which they were parties.
 that there has been no restitution of conjugal rights as between the parties to the marriage for a period of one year or upwards after the passing of a decree for restitution of conjugal rights in a proceeding to which they were parties.
 petition for divorce may be presented to the District Court by both the parties together on the ground that they have been living separately for a period of one year or more that they have not been able to live together and that they have mutually agreed that the marriage should be dissolved.
Where a marriage has been dissolved by a decree of divorce, and either there is no right of appeal against the decree or if there is such a right of appeal the time for appealing has expired without an appeal having been presented or an appeal has been presented but has been dismissed.
husband shall secure to the wife for her maintenance and support if necessary by a charge on the husband's property such gross sum or such monthly or periodical payment of money for a term not exceeding her life.
marrying someone else except spouse is punishable offence.
two or more wives/husbands.
 guilty of adultery
 exchanged his profession of Christianity for the profession of some other religion
gone through a form of marriage with another woman
bigamy with adultery
marriage with another woman with adultery
 rape
sodomy or bestiality
adultery coupled with such cruelty as without adultery would have entitled her to a divorce a mensa et toro
adultery coupled with desertion
polygamy.
happily married.
satisfied with married life.

