abuse her husband or children verbally emotionally physically or sexually.
be absent from the marital home for more than 60 days unless by mutual agreement.
sexually transmit disease or other transmissible diseases misuse interfere with the husbands property.
Mahr is the consideration for the contract of marriage between the parties.
the portion of the Mahr which is payable to the wife at a specified point in the marriage or at the time of dissolution of the marriage through divorce or death of the husband.
Any deferred Mahr that remains unpaid at the time of dissolution becomes a debt against the former husband's assets.
Marrying a fifth wife.
Marrying a woman undergoing iddat.
Marrying a non-Muslim.
Absence of proper witnesses.
Woman going for a second marriage even after the existence of the first marriage.
Marrying pregnant women.
Marriage through forced consent.
Plurality of husband.
Marriage prohibited on the ground of consanguinity.
Marriage prohibited on the ground of affinity.
Marriage prohibited on the ground of fosterage.
Marrying during pilgrimage.
Marrying own divorced wife.
a man may marry the mother of his foster sister or the foster mother of his sister.
Marriage is necessary for the legitimization of a child.
TWO men can be the witness.
ONE man and TWO women can be the witness.
ONLY women can not be the witness.
INSANE and MINOR can not be the witness.
If the wife initiates the divorce without any grounds this is called khula and she must return whatever the husband has given her in consideration for the marriage.
A man cannot marry his foster mother  nor foster sister unless the foster brother and sister were nursed by the same mother at intervals widely separated.
Relative incapacity springs from case which render the marriage irregular only so long as the cause which creaes the bar exist,the moment it is removed,the incapacity ends and the marriage becomes valid and binding.
having more than one husband is forbidden in the muslim system and a married women cannot marry second time so long as the first marriage subsists.
Muslim woman marrying a non-muslim- a marriage of a muslim female with a non muslim male made whether he be Christian or jew or an idolater or a fire worshipper is irregular in nature under sunni law and void under shia law.
Marriage with fifth wife.
Marriage with a women undergoing Iddat.
Marriage with a fire-worshipper.
Marriage outcome of bar of unlawful conjunction.
An irregular marriage has no legal effect before consummation but when consummated give rise to several rights & obligations.
abuse his wife and children verbally emotionally physically sexually.
he is absent from the marital home for more than sixty days unless by mutual agreement.
 withhold economic contribution towards his wife/family.
sexually transmit disease or other transmissible diseases. 
misuse or interfere with property.
a man is prohibited from marrying mother-in-law step-grandmother danghter-in-law step-granddaughter.
A man cannot marry his foster mother nor foster sister unless the foster brother and sister were nursed by the same mother at intervals widely separated But a man may marry the mother of his foster sister or the foster mother of his sister.
Marrying a fifth wife.
Marrying a woman undergoing iddat.
Marrying a non-Muslim.
Absence of proper witnesses. 
Woman going for a second marriage even after the existence of the first marriage.
Woman going for a second marriage without getting divorced.
Marrying pregnant women .
Marrying during pilgrimage.
Marrying own divorced wife.
polygandry.
Marriage with a sick man.
A marriage without witness.
Marriage with fifth wife.
Marriage with a women undergoing Iddat.
Marriage with a fire-worshipper.
Marriage outcome of bar of unlawful conjunction.
Marriage through forced consent.
Plurality of husband.
Marriage prohibited on the ground of consanguinity.
Marriage prohibited on the ground of affinity.
Marriage prohibited on the ground of fosterage.
Husbands should make a will in favor of their wives for the provision of one year’s residence and maintenance unless the wives themselves leave the house or take any other similar step.
In Islam iddah or iddat is a period after a divorce during which a woman may not marry another man.
Husbands should make a will in favor of their wives for the provision of one year’s residence and maintenance, unless the wives themselves leave the house or take any other similar step.
There should be a proposal made by or on behalf of one of the parties to the marriage, and an acceptance of the proposal by or on behalf of the other party.
The proposal and acceptance must both be expressed at once meeting.
they must be sane and adult.
There must be two male or one male & two female witnesses of sane mind.
Mahr is the consideration for the contract of marriage between the parties.
It may be in the form of money and/or goods given by the Bridegroom to the Bride in consideration for the marriage.
It may be in the form of money and/or goods given by the Bridegroom to the Bride in consideration for the marriage.
women who are divorced shall wait keeping themselves apart three monthly courses.
divorced woman is bound to observe Iddat for three menstrual cycles.
In case of pregnancy the widow is bound to observe the Iddat for a period which ever is the longest delievery of child or four months.
that the whereabouts of the husband have not been known for a period of four year.
that the husband has neglected or has failed to provide for her maintenance for a period of two years.
that the husband has been sentenced to imprisonment for a period of seven years or upward.
that the husband has failed to perform without reasonable cause his marital obligations for a period of three years.
that the husband was impotent at the time of the marriage and continues to be so.
that the husband has been insane for a period of two years or is suffering from leprosy or a virulent venereal disease.
that she having been given in marriage by her father or other guardian before she attained the age of fifteen years repudiated the marriage before attaining the age of eighteen years.
Provided that the marriage has not been consummated.
that the husband treats her with cruelty.
habitually assaults her.
makes her life miserable by cruelty of conduct even if such conduct does not amount to physical ill-treatment.
associates with women of evil repute or leads an infamous life.
attempts to force her to lead an immoral life.
disposes of her property or prevents her exercising her legal rights over it.
obstructs her in the observance of her religious profession or practice. 
 if he has more wives than one does not treat her equitably in accordance with the injunctions of the Qoran. 
 it was a cruelty to force a young woman who was desirious of becoming a mother to abort her pregnancy and some drug was administered to her and miscarriage occurred consequently.
muslim woman was married according to Muslim law and has been divorced by or has obtained divorce from her husband in accordance with Muslim law.
a reasonable and fair provision and maintenance to be made and paid by her former husband for a period of two years from the respective dates of birth of such children.
the amount equal to the sum of mahr or dower has not been paid by the husband after divorce or that the properties referred to in clause.
happily married.
satisfied with married life.


